Each controller and, where applicable, the controller's representative, shall maintain a record of processing activities under its responsibility. That record shall contain the name and contact details of the controller and, where applicable, the joint controller, the controller's representative and the data protection officer.


That record shall contain the purposes of the processing.


That record shall contain a description of the categories of data subjects and of the categories of personal data.


That record shall contain the categories of recipients to whom the personal data have been or will be disclosed including recipients in third countries or international organisations.


That record shall contain where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation, including the identification of that third country or international organisation and, in the case of transfers referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the documentation of suitable safeguards.


That record shall contain where possible, the envisaged time limits for erasure of the different categories of data.


That record shall contain where possible, a general description of the technical and organisational security measures referred to in Article 32(1).

Each processor and, where applicable, the processor's representative shall maintain a record of all categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller, containing the name and contact details of the processor or processors and of each controller on behalf of which the processor is acting, and, where applicable, of the controller's or the processor's representative, and the data protection officer.


Each processor and, where applicable, the processor's representative shall maintain a record of all categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller, containing the categories of processing carried out on behalf of each controller.


Each processor and, where applicable, the processor's representative shall maintain a record of all categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller, containing where applicable, transfers of personal data to a third country or an international organisation, including the identification of that third country or international organisation and, in the case of transfers referred to in the second subparagraph of Article 49(1), the documentation of suitable safeguards.


Each processor and, where applicable, the processor's representative shall maintain a record of all categories of processing activities carried out on behalf of a controller, containing where possible, a general description of the technical and organisational security measures referred to in Article 32(1).

The records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be in writing, including in electronic form.

The controller or the processor and, where applicable, the controller's or the processor's representative, shall make the record available to the supervisory authority on request.

The obligations referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply to an enterprise or an organisation employing fewer than 250 persons unless the processing it carries out is likely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, the processing is not occasional, or the processing includes special categories of data as referred to in Article 9(1) or personal data relating to criminal convictions and offences referred to in Article 10.
